MARIA: AND WE'RE BACK WITH
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR JOHN
BOLTON, AND BEFORE WE WENT TO
THE BREAK, SIR, I MENTIONED THE
CULTURE, THAT WE ALL KNOW, IS
CHINESE, AND THAT IS THE IP
THEFT, I MEAN I'VE GOT A LIST
OF COMPANIES HERE, WHO HAVE SUED
HUAWEI AND ZTE FOR STEALING
TRADE SECRETS AND THEN SETTLED
LAWSUITS WITH THEM INCLUDING
CISCO AND MOTOROLA AND T-MOBILE,
MICROSOFT ET CETERA.
HOW DO YOU MOVE THE NEEDLE ON
THAT?
>> WELL IF I WERE BACK AT THE
AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE
AND A FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR, I
WOULD DISCUSS THAT AT LENGTH.
I'LL JUST SAY THIS.
I THINK PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS
IDENTIFIED EXACTLY THE STRUCTURE
ALL ISSUES THAT YOU'VE REFERRED
TO, THE ENORMOUS DAMAGE, THAT'S
BEEN DONE TO THE UNITED STATES
OVER A PERIOD OF DECADES BY
CHINESE STEALING INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY AND FORCED TECHNOLOGY
TRANSFERS THIS IS CRITICAL
REVERSING PATTERN TO GET THIS
RIGHT IN THE NEGOTIATIONS, SO I
DON'T THINK IT SHOULD BE
SURPRISING THAT IT'S COMPLEX AND
THAT CHINA IS FACED WITH SOME
VERY DIFFICULT CHOICES HERE
THAT'S WHAT OUR NEGOTIATORS HAVE
BEEN PURSUING AND THAT'S REALLY
MUCH OF THE WORK THAT REMAINS TO
BE DONE.
NOT ONLY HAD TO REACH AN
AGREEMENT ON THESE ISSUES BUT
HOW TO ENFORCE THEM OVER THE
LONG TERM.
MARIA: WELL THIS IS THE KEY AND
THIS IS WHAT'S BEEN TALKED ABOUT
MOST RECENTLY SOME KIND OF
ACTION THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT
CAN COME UP WITHIN TERMS OF
ENFORCEMENT, AND ENFORCEMENT
ACTIONS SHOULD THE CHINESE TURN
AROUND AND NOT KEEP THEIR
PROMISES WHICH OF COURSE WE KNOW
THEY'VE DONE IN THE PAST MANY
TIMES.
WHAT IS THE ENFORCEMENT ACTION
THAT COULD BE POSSIBLE HERE TO
MAKE SURE THAT BEIJING FOLLOWS
UP WITH THESE PROMISES?
>> WELL I DON'T WANT TO STEAL
BOB LIGHTHIZER'S THUNDER ON THIS
THEY ARE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
NEGOTIATIONS NOW, THERE ARE
GOING TO BE MORE TALKS NEXT WEEK
CERTAINLY AT THE HIGHEST LEVELS
OF THE GOVERNMENT, WE'RE WORKING
AS HARD AS WE CAN TO PURSUE THE
PRESIDENT'S AGENDA HERE.
MARIA: WOULD YOU PUT PARIS BACK
IN PLACE?
>> SURE THAT WOULD BE A
POSSIBILITY, THAT'S ONE WAY OF
DOING IT THAT'S ONE OF THE
OPTIONS THAT'S OUT THERE AND
THAT'S ONE OF THE REASONS
HONESTLY LOOK I'M A FREE-TRADER
BUT ONE OF THE REASONS THAT THE
PRESIDENT I THINK WAS RIGHT AND
IMPOSING TARIFFS ON CHINA IS
THAT IT GOT THEIR ATTENTION, AND
I THINK THAT'S BEEN ALL TO THE
GOOD.
MARIA: BUT I WANT TO ZERO IN ON
THE NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUES
BECAUSE YOU'RE REALLY GOING TO
GIVE US SOME IMPORTANT COLOR ON
THIS, AND WE KNOW THAT THIS IS
NOT JUST ECONOMIC WARFARE.
THIS IS ALSO MILITARY AGGRESSION
S, THEY ARE, YOU KNOW,
SETTING UP ISLANDS IN THE SOUTH
CHINA SEA.
THEY'RE PUTTING MILITARY BASES
ON THOSE ISLANDS.
ACROSS THE WORLD RIGHT ON THE
BORDERS AND THE PORTS AS FAR AS
JABUTI, ACCORDING TO THE FORMER
HEAD OF INTEL COMMITTEE DEVON
NUNES WHOSE BEEN ON THIS PROGRAM
MANY TIMES CAN YOU TALK ABOUT
THE MILITARY AGGRESSIONS AND IF
THERE'S ANYTHING THE U.S. CAN DO
TO STOP THAT?
>> LOOK THE WAY TO HANDLE CHINA
FOR THE UNITED STATES, I THINK,
IS THE EXISTENTIAL SECURITY
QUESTION OF THE 21ST CENTURY AND
IT'S IDENTIFIED AS SUCH IN THE
PRESIDENT'S NATIONAL SECURITY
STRATEGY AND ITS BEEN A FOCUS OF
MUCH OF THE PREPARATION OF THE
BUDGET REQUEST THAT WILL BE
ANNOUNCED HERE SHORTLY, WE'RE
LOOKING EXACTLY AT THINGS LIKE
WHAT CHINA'S DOING IN THE SOUTH
CHINA SEA, CONTRARY TO EVERY
PLEDGE ITS MADE BEFORE, TO
ENGAGE IN PEACEFUL NEGOTIATIONS,
TO RESOLVE TERRITORIAL CLAIMS.
IT IS TAKING OVER THESE ROCKS
AND ISLANDS BUILDING MILITARY
BASES ON THEM, IT'S COMPLETELY
UNACCEPTABLE.
IT'S WHY WE CONTINUE TO DO
FREEDOM OF NAVIGATION EXERCISES,
AND LOOK AT OTHER WAYS TO STOP
THIS EFFORT IN EFFECT TO CREATE
A NEW CHINESE PROVINCE.
PEOPLE MAY SAY BUT THE SOUTH
CHINA SEA IS SO FAR AWAY.
IT'S TWICE AS BIG AS THE
MEDITERRANEAN SEA AND BETWEEN 40
AND 50% OF THE WORLD'S SHIP-BORN
E COMMERCE GOES THROUGH
THE SOUTH CHINA SEA SO IF THEY
CHANGE IT TO CHINESE TERRITORIAL
WATERS IT'S A HUGE SHIFT FOR
SOUTHEAST AND EAST ASIA.
MARIA: ON THE ECONOMIC WARFARE
IT'S NOT JUST THE OBVIOUS FORCE
TRANSFER OF TECHNOLOGY WHEN
BEIJING SPENDS A LOT OF THEIR
MONEY TO ACQUIRE AN ENERGY
COMPANY OR A FINANCIAL SERVICES
COMPANY A TECHNOLOGY COMPANY IN
THE U.S..
IT'S ALSO ABOUT ACADEMIA.
CAN THE U.S. DO ANYTHING ABOUT
THAT?
WE'VE TALKED A GREAT DEAL ON
THIS PROGRAM ABOUT CONFUCIOUS
CENTERS THESE
INSTITUTES WHICH CALL THEMSELVES
THINK TANK NON-PROFITS BUT IN
FACT CAN ACT AS ANOTHER CENTER
THAT IS SUCKING UP U.S.
INTELLIGENCE.
HOW WORRIED ARE YOU ABOUT THESE?
>> VERY WORRIED.
THIS IS AN EFFORT BY CHINA TO
INFLUENCE OPINION IN AMERICA
THAT MAKES THE ELECTION HACKING
WE'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT BY
RUSSIA.
LOOK, AS ONE SENIOR U.S.
OFFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
CALLED IT, THE JV EFFORT.
WHAT CHINA'S DOING WHAT VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE EXPLAINED SOME
MONTHS BACK IN A VERY IMPORTANT
SPEECH ABOUT THESE EFFORTS,
REALLY, IS FAR GREATER IN
MAGNITUDE THAN ANY OTHER FOREIGN
EFFORT WE'VE SEEN IN HISTORY TO
INFLUENCE AMERICAN OPINION, AND
IT'S NOT JUST CONFINED TO THE
UNITED STATES.
THEY'RE DOING IT IN AUSTRALIA,
OTHER COUNTRIES, CLOSE FRIENDS
OF OURS SO THIS REALLY GOES TO
THE CORE OF HOW YOU MAINTAIN A
FREE AND OPEN SOCIETY IN THIS
COUNTRY WHEN OTHER COUNTRIES ARE
TRYING TO INFLUENCE IT THE WAY
THAT CHINA HAS.
IT GOES WELL BEYOND JUST
ELECTION HACKING, ALTHOUGH WE
CERTAINLY HAVE BEEN CONCERNED
ABOUT CHINA DOING THAT AS WELL.
MARIA: JOHN CAN YOU GIVE US AN
UPDATE ON SYRIA?
I WANT TO SWITCH GEARS BECAUSE I
WANT TO GET AS MUCH IN WITH YOU
AS POSSIBLE THIS MORNING ON THE
HEELS OF THE U.S. JOURNAL STORY
THE U.S. IS HUNTING FOR ALLIED
COOPERATION IN SYRIA.
THE ADMINISTRATION DID NOT
SECURE COMMITMENTS FROM KEY
EUROPEAN ALLIES TO SEND MILITARY
FORCES TO SYRIA PASSING THE
TARGET SET FOR FRIDAY.
WHERE ARE WE?
>> WELL I THINK THE JOURNAL MAY
BE A LITTLE BIT BEHIND THE
CURVE ON THAT I CAN TELL YOU
I'VE SPOKEN TO MY BRITISH AND
FRENCH COUNTERPARTS THIS PAST
WEEK AND THEY ARE LOOKING TO PRY
AND PARTICIPANT, WE HAVEN'T
FORMALIZED IT YET A LOT OF WORK
REMAINS TO BE DONE CHAIRMAN OF
THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF JOEY D
UNFORD AND HIS COLLEAGUES AT
THE PENTAGON HAVE BEEN MOVING
HEAVEN AND EARTH TO TRY AND GET
THIS ACCOMPLISHED WE'RE STILL
OPTIMISTIC WE CAN DO IT BUT IT'S
STILL MOVING IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION.
WE THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
THAT WE GET THIS RIGHT.
MARIA: WELL, THE PRESIDENT WOULD
LIKE OUR ALLIES TO PAY UP, IN
TERMS OF THE U.S. TROOPS ON THE
GROUND, HAVE YOU GOTTEN ANY
RESPONSE FROM THE PRESIDENT'S
PROPOSALS?
>> WELL WE'RE DOING A LOT AS
YOU KNOW IN NATO TO GET THE
ALLIES TO INCREASE THEIR
SPENDING TO MEET THE COMMITMENT
THEY THEMSELVES MADE IN WALES IN
2014 TO GET TO 2% OF GROSS
NATIONAL PRODUCT BY 2024 AND
THAT WASN'T AN ACCIDENTAL
DECISION AT WALES IN 2014.
IT WAS AFTER THE RUSSIANS MOVED
INTO EASTERN UKRAINE AND OUR
FRIENDS IN EUROPE BEGAN TO
REALIZE THAT THE HISTORY HAD NOT
ACTUALLY ENDED.
IT WAS STILL GOING ON AND THEY
WERE LIVING ON A CONTINENT WITH
A REAL THREAT, SO THIS IS ALSO
TRUE IN TERMS OF BASE RENTALS
AND OTHER COSTS THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS LOOKED AT.
I THINK HE'S FOLLOWING THROUGH
ON MANY OF THE THINGS BARACK
OBAMA SAID, HE'S JUST BEING MORE